One last thing that I would like to cover before we start working with Flex items properties is main
axes and cross axes and how in fact is going to affect your layout.
First and foremost I'm gonna show you a nice representation where when we have a flex box rule our main
axis is going horizontal and our cross axis is in fact going vertically.
However when we switch the Flex box column remember that was done by using flex direction where we set
it up to where column our main axis easy in fact vertical and our cross axis is going horizontal.
Now let me also show you example where you're going to see that in action.
Now first and foremost I don't think I need these generic boxes.
That's number one.
Then also let's create another container and let's just do simply by container number one.
Okay.
And I'm also going to place all the same boxes in here.
We're not going to be very original.
So I have my second container.
However for my second container the container number one I'm going to add a different border.
So when you say container number one I'm also gonna add a little bit of more height let's go with 800
pixels.
Like so that's my container number one.
Then let's add like I said another border border five pixels solid below like so.
And lastly let's do a display flex display flex.
However in this case remember we have our default on flux direction is set to 0 or in our case.
I'm gonna go with Alex direction and we're gonna go with Carl here.
Now let's imagine this scenario where I would like to place my atoms in a center horizontally and also
vertically.
Well no big deal right.
We know we have just very content and we go with center correct.
That's number one.
So for our first container they're sitting horizontally innocent.
And also we have a line items and that one is of course responsible for vertical line.
And again we just set them up in a center.
So everything works just like we planned.
However what if our like to do the same thing with my container no one does in fact has the Flex direction
of column.
So how it's going to work.
Well we know already that in order to place them let's say vertically what is the property.
Well there is a line items and then a line item is innocent.
However you're going to notice something really really interesting where for my flex direction of column
we did not set them right now vertically in the center.
In fact we set them up actually horizontal in the center.
And the reason for that because again our axis change where our Flex blocks row at the main act is going
here horizontally.
Our flex box column has the main axis going in fact vertically and that's the reason if I would want
to place it vertically in the center instead of on line items I would need to use justify content.
And in this case once I set it up in fact justify content equal to center then I place them in fact
vertically in a center.
So please keep in mind when you're going to work with Flex box please keep in mind which is your flex
direction whatever it is that column and if it is a column then your main axis changed right.
So then the properties that you had previously for the role while you need to keep in mind which one
is your main axis in which one is your cross axis.
And that way you can in fact avoid any kind of confusion which would happen if you're trying to place
something horizontal in the center and you know what it is not work you are actually in fact placing
it vertically.
So that's something you need to keep in mind when you work when the Flex box that there is something
called main axis and cross axis.
And it does change when you change your flex direction.